---
title: "Linux as a daily driver in 2020?"
date: 2020-02-02T00:20:00+02:00
description: "Why I switched to Linux? How's Linux as a daily driver in 2020? Do I miss something from Windows? A short summary of my experiences with Linux as my daily driver."
author: "Ville Valtonen"
draft: false
featured: true
hidden: false
---

It has been few months now since I made the switch from Windows to Linux. I've had Linux with dual boot couple of times in the past and only at my personal laptop at home, but last fall I did something differently. I installed a Linux OS on my work machine for the first time ever. It was mainly because I started to encounter more and more limits of Windows as an operating system for development and some of my colleagues were using Linux in our corporate environment quite happily, so I thought that I'll give it a shot. This blog post will summarize my experiences with Linux at work and at home as a main operating system.

So, why did I switch? First of all, I don't hate or dislike Windows 10, I think it's pretty solid OS in general, but for my use Linux is superior. In the beginning of this post I mentioned that I started to encounter the limitations of Windows more often. One of the reasons is that if I wanted to use Docker for Windows, I had to enable Hyper-V, which blocks the usage of any "level 2" hypervisors like VirtualBox and VMWare. Other major reason for the switch was the integration of development tools and OS itself. Although Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) is one of the coolest pieces of technology that I've encountered lately, I wanted more integrated experience between my development tools and operating system.

Those were the two main reasons I switched to Linux, but I've also noticed multiple other perks of using Linux for my work and personal projects. For example, Linux is fast. Like really fast. Compiling code, running tests, application and OS startup times, spinning up containers and so on. Everything is faster, which makes my work more enjoyable. It's also a great learning experience. I've done a fair share of Linux administration, but still, I learn new things on regular basis about the OS itself. I also like the level of control I have on my OS.

It all sounds great, but is there any disadvantages or something you miss from Windows? Yes. There are couple of things, which are kind of disturbing my otherwise smooth sailing with Linux-ship. The first one, cloud storage synchronization. I've been using OneDrive for few years and I really liked how OneDrive was mounted into the filesystem in Windows and how it handles the synchronization on both ways. So far I've not yet found anything as convenient cloud storage solution for Linux and I've been using OneDrive through the web interface. The second thing is only work related and hopefully will be only a memory in the near future, but the lack of Skype for Business support is annoying, since now I have to start up a Windows 10 virtual machine quite regularly to be able to attend any Skype-meetings. Luckily Microsoft Teams has started to replace Skype in many occasions and the Teams web app is quite good and there is even a native app for Linux as well.

To summarize it, Linux (more specifically Debian) has been a great OS for my needs and I will continue using it as my daily driver. Sure, there are couple of things that could be better, but the overall experience is really nice. I haven't had anything major issues, the operating system is really stable and fast and the hardware support is great nowadays. If you are a developer and have thought about switching to Linux, I can highly recommend it. But buyer's beware, it's a captivating journey!

PS. If you're more interested in my setup, you can found it from [here](https://vvaltonen.com/post/gear). I've also scripted the setup process for my OS and stored my dotfiles in [Github](https://github.com/villeval/dotfiles), so anytime I have to install OS again, I can easily set up the OS for myself just by running the scripts.